What is quality of service quality of service is providing a better quality to certain applications
at the detriment of other applications in the same way that on the roads certain vehicles are poor motorized
over others such as ambulances or buses.
We approach rising certain traffic types.
In other words making sure that they go to the front of the queue.
As an example versus other traffic types.
Certain traffic types such as voice or video are delay sensitive they can't handle a lot of delay so
they will be poorer terrorized over traffic types that can handle delay such as FCP.
It's also called managed unfairness.
We are introducing unfairness into the network prioritizing certain traffic types over other traffic
types.
As an example a very important phone call from the CEO would be proud to rise over someone watching
YouTube videos for the CPA exam.
You need to be aware of three traffic types and to their traffic characteristics.
Firstly we have data data traffic is generally boosted and greedy that's not always the case.
But generally data applications such as FCP will grab as much bandwidth as they can.
If you give an FCP application two megabits per second it will take two megabits per second.
If you give it four megabits per second it's going to take four megabits per second.
So data is Bersih and greedy.
It's sometimes smooth and benign.
In other words it doesn't grab all the bandwidth that you give it.
But in a lot of cases data applications of boosting and greedy.
They also tend to be dropping sensitive.
In other words if a packet is dropped it doesn't matter because it's a retransmission.
A lot of data applications use TTP which read transmits data if packets go missing.
It's also delay insensitive.
So as an example if packets are delayed by 500 milliseconds it's not a major problem.
Now this really depends on the type of data sent.
There are two major categories of data applications.
We have interactive data applications and non interactive data applications telnet.
As an example is interactive a large delay will degrade the user experience.
But if you downloading a file using FCP delay isn't that important.